Using Eigenfaces to Identify Masked Individuals 

1. Summary
Face recognition is a method of identifying or verifying the identity of an individual using their face. Face recognition systems can be used to identify people in photos, video, or in real-time. Law enforcement may also use mobile devices to identify people during police stops. However, it has become a problem since people with masks are often hard to detect on facial recognition systems This report will detail the process of implementing a face recognition system that will randomly load a masked image and the algorithm will then find an image of the same person for their unmasked version using eigenfaces. In addition to a working system, this report would also address how the introduction of a face mask obstructing some vital facial parts will affect the system in place and how we would fix our system in accordance to that. The introduction will talk about the implications of the project and the potential bias of the algorithm. The methods will go into detail about the process of the created algorithm with eigenfaces. The detailed findings will discuss the completed system and the corresponding graphs for verification and validation information, the recommendation section goes over crucial findings of the model and areas for future investigation, and finally the references section with all the sources reference in this report paper.

2. Introduction
Facial Recognition Systems is a relatively modern technology that is capable of matching a human face from a digital image or video frame against a database of faces. The technology authenticates users through identification services while also being deployed in advanced human-computer interaction, video surveillance, and more recently, smartphone and robotics identification software. 
Over the past couple of decades, people have discovered numerous ways of deploying a facial recognition software such using different types of machine learning techniques or using a convolutional neural network (CNN for short) to recognize faces. However, the way this report will explore a more straightforward approach founded by Matthew A. Turk and Alex P. Pentland in 1991 is called the "eigenvector-based recognition system" and have the software automatically or manually load a specific image within the dataset and find an image of the same person from the same dataset. [1]
Although deploying a facial match recognition system is straightforward enough, possible ethical issues or obstructions may surface primarily during this time of the mass pandemic. During COVID-19, the wearing of facemasks has become an essential part of public life, as has the enforcement of mask-wearing in stores and other public places. This type of system that identifies faces may be difficult with the introduction of a mask on the face. Since a mask covers a large part of the face, the system would be more inaccurate or not even being able to match face images. Furthermore, since this algorithm would be servicing a large and diverse population, not just a specific demographic, reducing bias in training data will be necessary to prevent accuracy issues once deployed.
So in light of these possible controversies, this report will answer the question "Can we make an algorithm that takes in a dataset of people and using eigenfaces, detects an image from within the dataset that matches the face?" "Is it possible to take into account the facemasks people wear now that will now obstruct a large majority of the face when matching faces? Moreover, if so, how can we do it?"
